1.A multitasking OS allows you to run multiple processes (tasks)"simultaneously".
 They do not actually run at the same time . What happens isthat one process runs 
for a while, then the OS breaks in through an interrupt, stores away the state of the 
current process, restores the context of another, and allows that other process to 
run fora while, etcetera.  The processes ran by the OS can run processes of their
known as child processes.

2.Process are assigned by priority and are given id numbers that usually top out at the
 number 32767 which is the highest representation for a signed 16 bit number value. The
 value of the process ID number does not give any description of precedence or value they 
are randomly assigned. A process that was stopped releases it process ID the ID is not
 immediately reused for error protection. PID’s are used to track the process using the PS command 
details about the process can be found, information like how much of the CPU the process is using, 
what the process is currently doing, what files it has open, and the owner of the process.


3. ps er | grep *.py

4.Running process is running or ready to run 
Sleeping, not running, waiting for an event such as a keystroke 
Uninterruptible sleep, Process is waiting for  I/O operations
 Stopped the process has been instructed to stop 
defuncted or zombie process. this is a process terminated by parent but not cleaned 
High Priority process Priority process

5.kill -9 4576

6 nice ./example.sh

7. nice -n 5 testuser

8.compression is used to get the most data in the smallest available space. Data compression
removes redundancy. A command used for data compression is gzip or bzip2
Archiving is a task used often with compression, Archiving is the process of gathering
a group of files and bundling them into a single large file. Archiving is often done as
part of system backups. It is also used when old data is moved from a system
to some type of long term storage. tar cf example.tar example.dir will create the tar file
of the directory named example.

9 tar -W  test.tar.gz

10 tar tf test.tar.gz | grep test



